# Linux PrivEsc

After getting foothold of a system we need to gain sudo priviledges. This can be done by exploiting the system misconfigurations. Here are some common ways to escalate priviledges.

The first thing we need to do is chek which commands the current user allowed to run via sudo. For this use the command `sudo -l`

Check which of those commands are available in [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/) and based on the instructions given we can get a root shell or others.

For example if the current user can run `find` via sudo then by running `find . -exec /bin/sh \; -quit` he can spawn a shell with root priviledges.

## Weak file permissions
Sometimes sensitive files dont have proper read and write permissions. Eg: `/etc/shadow` stores the hash of all the user's password if you can read that file you can run a dictionary attack on that password using `john`.\
The passwords are stored in sha-512 format and can be cracked if the password is common using `john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt hash.txt`

If the file is writable you can change the password also by replacing the old hash with a new hash. You can create a hash using `mkpasswd -m sha-512 <newpass>`

### SSH Key
Another important file is ssh private key which is stored in `.ssh/` directory. Normally only the root can read it but if mistakenly the permissions are changed, You can copy the private key in attack machine and login into root using it.

### Config files and history

Look at the commands history `cat ~/.*history` and config files. Sometimes you may find a password or other important things.

## Cron jobs

Cron jobs are programs or scripts which users can schedule to run at specific times or intervals. Cron table files (crontabs) store the configuration for cron jobs. The system-wide crontab is located at /etc/crontab. View the crontabs and find what programs or scripts they are running and their permissions.\
If we can alter the contents of the file we can easily put a payload.

## SUID/SGID executables

Ways to find the executables using
```
find / -user root -perm -4000 -print 2>/dev/null
find / -perm -u=s -type f 2>/dev/null
find / -user root -perm -4000 -exec ls -ldb {} \;
find / -type f -a \( -perm -u+s -o -perm -g+s \) -exec ls -l {} \; 2> /dev/null
```
and check if there are any cve agaisnst any of them.

## Linux Privilege Escalation using Capabilities
https://www.hackingarticles.in/linux-privilege-escalation-using-capabilities/

## Automated Enumeration Scripts

[linPEAS](https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/linPEAS#linpeas---linux-privilege-escalation-awesome-script)\
[LinEnum](https://github.com/rebootuser/LinEnum)
