# Server-side request forgery (SSRF)

Source:[portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/ssrf)

Server-side request forgery (also known as SSRF) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to induce the server-side application to make HTTP requests to an arbitrary domain of the attacker's choosing.

In a typical SSRF attack, the attacker might cause the server to make a connection to internal-only services within the organization's infrastructure. In other cases, they may be able to force the server to connect to arbitrary external systems, potentially leaking sensitive data such as authorization credentials.

## Basic SSRF against the server itself
SSRF attacks often exploit trust relationships to escalate an attack from the vulnerable application and perform unauthorized actions. These trust relationships might exist in relation to the server itself, or in relation to other back-end systems within the same organization.

Admin panel cannot be accessed with normal accounts so send the following request to get the admin page. As the api request will be made by the server itself(which is trusted) so we will also get all the admin priviledges
```
POST /product/stock HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 118

stockApi=http://localhost/admin
```
## Basic SSRF defenses

- *blacklist-based input filters*: Some applications block input containing hostnames like 127.0.0.1 and localhost, or sensitive URLs like /admin.
- *whitelist-based input filters*: Some applications only allow input that matches, begins with, or contains, a whitelist of permitted values. In this situation, you can sometimes circumvent the filter by exploiting inconsistencies in URL parsing.

## Bypass basic defenses

- Using an alternative IP representation of 127.0.0.1, such as 2130706433, 017700000001, or 127.1.
- Registering your own domain name that resolves to 127.0.0.1. You can use spoofed.burpcollaborator.net for this purpose.
- Obfuscating blocked strings using URL encoding or case variation.
- ou can embed credentials in a URL before the hostname, using the @ character. For example: https://expected-host@evil-host.
- You can use the # character to indicate a URL fragment. For example: https://evil-host#expected-host.
- You can leverage the DNS naming hierarchy to place required input into a fully-qualified DNS name that you control. For example: https://expected-host.evil-host.
- You can URL-encode characters to confuse the URL-parsing code. This is particularly useful if the code that implements the filter handles URL-encoded characters differently than the code that performs the back-end HTTP request.
- You can use combinations of these techniques together.

## Bypassing SSRF filters via open redirection
Replace this
```
api=/product/stock/check?productId=1&storeId=1
```
with
```
api=/product/nextProduct?currentProductId=6&path=http://evil-user.net
```
### Detect open redirection

When navigated to 'next product' the request was
```
GET /product/nextProduct?currentProductId=1&path=/product?productId=2 HTTP/1.1
```
and the response was
```
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: /product?productId=2
Connection: close
Content-Length: 0
```
The path parameter is placed into the Location header of a redirection response, resulting in an open redirection.

# Blind SSRF

Blind SSRF vulnerabilities arise when an application can be induced to issue a back-end HTTP request to a supplied URL, but the response from the back-end request is not returned in the application's front-end response.

## Hidden attack surface

- SSRF via the Referer header
- Partial URLs in requests
- URLs within data formats(XXE)
