# Linux Tools

## ping

Syntax: `ping <address>`

Output of `ping google.com`
```
Pinging google.com [142.250.183.206] with 32 bytes of data:
Reply from 142.250.183.206: bytes=32 time=37ms TTL=119
Reply from 142.250.183.206: bytes=32 time=36ms TTL=119
Reply from 142.250.183.206: bytes=32 time=38ms TTL=119
Reply from 142.250.183.206: bytes=32 time=35ms TTL=119

Ping statistics for 142.250.183.206:
    Packets: Sent = 4, Received = 4, Lost = 0 (0% loss),
Approximate round trip times in milli-seconds:
    Minimum = 35ms, Maximum = 38ms, Average = 36ms
```
By using this tool we can get the ip address of any site and also checks whether the site is up or not.

## traceroute

Syntax: `traceroute <address>`

This gives the path to the target i.e. all the intermediate routers.

## dig

Syntax: `dig <domain> @<dns-server-ip>`

It is also used to get the ip-address of a domain from a given dns-server. Everytime we surf the internet this process is done automatically. Using `dig` we can do that manually.


You can find more about this tools and their usage using `man <tool>`

## netdiscover

Syntax: `sudo netdiscover`

This tool requires sudo previledges to run. It scans the local network you are in and gives you the ip-addresses of other machines.

# nmap

This is a very important tool for any pentester. It scans a given target and finds out all the details about the machine like open ports, services running, OS version, etc.
**Remember using this on a machine you don't have permissions is illegal, so use it with responsibility**

Syntax: `nmap [OPTIONS] <target>`

Some important options:
- -sS: SYN scan, this requires sudo previledges. It performs a incomplete three-way handshake so also called *Half-open* or *Stealth* scan. Use this when the target has a firewall/IDS.
- --scripts: This is used to pass scripts along with the scan used for finding vulnerabilities or running exploits, etc.
- --badsum: creates invalid checksum. Used to detect the presence of firewall

Know about the rest using `man nmap`
