# XXE Injection

Source: [portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/xxe)

XML external entity injection (also known as XXE) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with an application's processing of XML data. It often allows an attacker to view files on the application server filesystem, and to interact with any back-end or external systems that the application itself can access.

In some situations, an attacker can escalate an XXE attack to compromise the underlying server or other back-end infrastructure, by leveraging the XXE vulnerability to perform server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks.

## XML

E**x**tensible **M**arkup **L**anguage is a language designed for storing and transporting data. Like HTML, XML uses a tree-like structure of tags and data. Unlike HTML, XML does not use predefined tags, and so tags can be given names that describe the data. Eg:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<Person>
  <Name>Sam</Name>
  <Age>11</Age>
</Person>
```
- `<?xml version="1.0"?>` is meta data for xml parser. This is also optional.
- <Person>....</Person> is root element. Only 1 exists in XML.
- `<Name>Sam</Name>`,`<Age>11</Age>` are children element

### Entities
Entities are like variables which stores value to use multiple time. Entities are defined in document Type definition(DTD). Eg:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE Person [
  <!ENTITY name "Sam">
]>
<Person>
  <Name>&name;</Name>
  <Age>11</Age>
</Person>
```
- `<!DOCTYPE Person [.......]>` is DTD.

### XML external entities
XML external entities are a type of entity whose definition is located outside of the DTD where they are declared.
The declaration of an external entity uses the SYSTEM keyword and must specify a URL from which the value of the entity should be loaded. For example:
```XML
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY ext SYSTEM "http://normal-website.com" > ]>
```
The URL can use the file:// protocol, and so external entities can be loaded from file. For example:
```XML
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY ext SYSTEM "file:///path/to/file" > ]>
```
External entities are particularly interesting from a security perspective because they allow an entity to be defined based on the contents of a file path or URL.

## XXE Attacks
There are various types of XXE attacks:

- Exploiting XXE to retrieve files, where an external entity is defined containing the contents of a file, and returned in the application's response.
- Exploiting XXE to perform SSRF attacks, where an external entity is defined based on a URL to a back-end system.
- Exploiting blind XXE exfiltrate data out-of-band, where sensitive data is transmitted from the application server to a system that the attacker controls.
- Exploiting blind XXE to retrieve data via error messages, where the attacker can trigger a parsing error message containing sensitive data.
### Exploiting XXE to retrieve files
Ways:
- Introduce (or edit) a DOCTYPE element that defines an external entity containing the path to the file.
- Edit a data value in the XML that is returned in the application's response, to make use of the defined external entity.\
For example, suppose a shopping application checks for the stock level of a product by submitting the following XML to the server:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<stockCheck><productId>381</productId></stockCheck>
```
The application performs no particular defenses against XXE attacks, so you can exploit the XXE vulnerability to retrieve the /etc/passwd file by submitting the following XXE payload:
```XML
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd"> ]>
<stockCheck><productId>&xxe;</productId></stockCheck>
```
This XXE payload defines an external entity &xxe; whose value is the contents of the /etc/passwd file and uses the entity within the productId value. This causes the application's response to include the contents of the file:
```
Invalid product ID: root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
daemon:x:1:1:daemon:/usr/sbin:/usr/sbin/nologin
bin:x:2:2:bin:/bin:/usr/sbin/nologin
```
### Exploiting XXE to perform SSRF attacks
Through SSRF we can access internal servers or websites only accessible to the target server and exploit them. Eg:
```XML
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "http://internal.vulnerable-website.com/"> ]>
```
### XInclude attacks
Some applications receive client-submitted data, embed it on the server-side into an XML document, and then parse the document. An example of this occurs when client-submitted data is placed into a back-end SOAP request, which is then processed by the backend SOAP service.

In this situation, you cannot carry out a classic XXE attack, because you don't control the entire XML document and so cannot define or modify a DOCTYPE element. However, you might be able to use XInclude instead. XInclude is a part of the XML specification that allows an XML document to be built from sub-documents. You can place an XInclude attack within any data value in an XML document, so the attack can be performed in situations where you only control a single item of data that is placed into a server-side XML document.

To perform an XInclude attack, you need to reference the XInclude namespace and provide the path to the file that you wish to include. For example:
```xml
<foo xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
<xi:include parse="text" href="file:///etc/passwd"/></foo>
```
### XXE attacks via file upload
Some applications allow users to upload files which are then processed server-side. Some common file formats use XML or contain XML subcomponents. Examples of XML-based formats are office document formats like DOCX and image formats like SVG.

For example, an application might allow users to upload images, and process or validate these on the server after they are uploaded. Even if the application expects to receive a format like PNG or JPEG, the image processing library that is being used might support SVG images. Since the SVG format uses XML, an attacker can submit a malicious SVG image and so reach hidden attack surface for XXE vulnerabilities. Eg:
```XML
<?xml version="1.0" standalone="yes"?><!DOCTYPE test [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/hostname" > ]><svg width="128px" height="128px" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" version="1.1"><text font-size="16" x="0" y="16">&xxe;</text></svg>
```
### XXE attacks via modified content type
Most POST requests use a default content type that is generated by HTML forms, such as application/x-www-form-urlencoded. Some web sites expect to receive requests in this format but will tolerate other content types, including XML.

For example, if a normal request contains the following:

POST /action HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 7

foo=bar

Then you might be able submit the following request, with the same result:

POST /action HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: text/xml
Content-Length: 52

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><foo>bar</foo>

If the application tolerates requests containing XML in the message body, and parses the body content as XML, then you can reach the hidden XXE attack surface simply by reformatting requests to use the XML format.
