# Directory traversal
Source:[portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/file-path-traversal)

Directory traversal (also known as file path traversal) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to read arbitrary files on the server that is running an application. This might include application code and data, credentials for back-end systems, and sensitive operating system files. In some cases, an attacker might be able to write to arbitrary files on the server, allowing them to modify application data or behavior, and ultimately take full control of the server.\
Eg:`https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=25.png` loads the picture `/var/www/images/25.png` but if we change the url to this `https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=../../../etc/passwd` it will load the passwd file of the server.

On Windows, both ../ and ..\ are valid directory traversal sequences, and an equivalent attack to retrieve a standard operating system file would be `https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=..\..\..\windows\win.ini`
## Common obstacles to exploiting file path traversal vulnerabilities
### Application strips or blocks directory traversal sequences from the user-supplied filename
The filename we supplied earlier contains `..\`. This is blocked or stripped in many applications. To bypass this we can:
- Use direct link to the path like `https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=/etc/passwd`.
- If the application is stripping the path non-recursively then we can use nested sequences like `https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=....//....//....//etc/passwd`. This will strip `../` thrice only. Now the resulting filename will be `https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=../../../etc/passwd`. This will not be checked as the application is not checking recursively.
- We can use url encode twice on the filepath and change it to `https://insecure-website.com/loadImage?filename=../../../etc/passwd`
- If an application requires that the user-supplied filename must start with the expected base folder, such as `/var/www/images`, then it might be possible to include the required base folder followed by suitable traversal sequences. For example `filename=/var/www/images/../../../etc/passwd`
- If an application requires that the user-supplied filename must end with an expected file extension, such as .png, then it might be possible to use a null byte to effectively terminate the file path before the required extension. For example `filename=../../../etc/passwd%00.png`

## How to prevent a directory traversal attack
The most effective way to prevent file path traversal vulnerabilities is to avoid passing user-supplied input to filesystem APIs altogether. Many application functions that do this can be rewritten to deliver the same behavior in a safer way.

If it is considered unavoidable to pass user-supplied input to filesystem APIs, then two layers of defense should be used together to prevent attacks:

- The application should validate the user input before processing it. Ideally, the validation should compare against a whitelist of permitted values. If that isn't possible for the required functionality, then the validation should verify that the input contains only permitted content, such as purely alphanumeric characters.
- After validating the supplied input, the application should append the input to the base directory and use a platform filesystem API to canonicalize the path. It should verify that the canonicalized path starts with the expected base directory.\
Below is an example of some simple Java code to validate the canonical path of a file based on user input:
```
File file = new File(BASE_DIRECTORY, userInput);
if (file.getCanonicalPath().startsWith(BASE_DIRECTORY)) {
    // process file
}
```
