# Server Side Template Injection with Jinja/Flask

Reference: [video](https://youtu.be/SN6EVIG4c-0) by PwnFunction,
[SSTI in Flask/Jinja2](https://medium.com/@nyomanpradipta120/ssti-in-flask-jinja2-20b068fdaeee)

In a websites when some part of the things changes and rest remains same for everyone, we use templates. Example when you open a page it says `Hi {user.name}!! Hope you are allright.`. Now everytime a user opens it, `{user.name}` is changed by the username of the user.

In Jinja2 dynamic part of templates are passed in `{{<data>}}` instead of `{<data>}`. The data can be anything from within the server like database or user input. Problem arises when it is user input and not properly filtered like in our case. Now if we pass a code it will be executed.

Suppose a webpage is prone to SSTI and it takes a parameter `search`, then by framing the url as `vulnerable-webste.com/?search={{4*4}}`,
You will notice in the response `16` will be reflected.

Now we have to run a code which can read the flag from the server.\
But we can't import anything(not supported by Jinja), we have to do it with whatever present also called gadgets available.

Now before we proceed note that the python script we run is also executed by python and it also have its own modules imported. Therefore those modules are not directly accessible to us but if we can find a path we can use them.

To get the we will need `__mro__` (Method Resolution Order). By using MRO we will access those functions which are available but is not directly accessible.

`__mro__` returns the hierarchy list of a object. By executing `''.__class__.__mro__`, the output is `(<class 'str'>, <class 'object'>)`. This means `''` or empty string is a string which is inherited from object(Everything in python is object)

*Note* You can also use `__base__` instead of mro to get the same result. Eg: `''.__class__.__base__`


Now to find which classes are available to us, use  `''.__class__.__mro__[1].__subclasses__()`

This will give a list of all the classes. Use whichever is most useful.

For eg to get all the subclasses frame the url as  `vulnerable-webste.com/?search={{''.__class__.__mro__[1].__subclasses__()}}`\
From the response, we can see `'<class 'subprocess.Popen'>'` is available. Subprocess.Popen can be used to run commands on shell. Find the index of the function, let say it comes out to be 414.

Now using the following payload to list all the files
```
{{''.__class__.__mro__[1].__subclasses__()[414]('ls *',shell=True,stdout=-1).communicate()}}
```
 You can also run other commands liking getting a reverse shell.
