# Cross-site scripting
Cheatsheet: [portswigger Cheatsheet](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting/cheat-sheet)

Source: [portswigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting)

types of XSS attacks
- Reflected XSS, where the malicious script comes from the current HTTP request.
- Stored XSS, where the malicious script comes from the website's database.
- DOM-based XSS, where the vulnerability exists in client-side code rather than server-side code.

## Reflected cross-site scripting
Reflected XSS is the simplest variety of cross-site scripting. It arises when an application receives data in an HTTP request and includes that data within the immediate response in an unsafe way.
Here is a simple example of a reflected XSS vulnerability:
```
https://insecure-website.com/status?message=All+is+well.

<p>Status: All is well.</p>
```
The application doesn't perform any other processing of the data, so an attacker can easily construct an attack like this:
```
https://insecure-website.com/status?message=<script>/*+Bad+stuff+here...+*/</script>

<p>Status: <script>/* Bad stuff here... */</script></p>
```
If the user visits the URL constructed by the attacker, then the attacker's script executes in the user's browser, in the context of that user's session with the application. At that point, the script can carry out any action, and retrieve any data, to which the user has access.

Simple exam for badstuff: ``<script>alert()</script>``

Impact of reflected XSS attacks
- Perform any action within the application that the user can perform.
- View any information that the user is able to view.
- Modify any information that the user is able to modify.
- Initiate interactions with other application users, including malicious attacks, that will appear to originate from the initial victim user.

### How to find and test for reflected XSS vulnerabilities
Testing for reflected XSS vulnerabilities manually involves the following steps:

- **Test every entry point.** Test separately every entry point for data within the application's HTTP requests. This includes parameters or other data within the URL query string and message body, and the URL file path. It also includes HTTP headers, although XSS-like behavior that can only be triggered via certain HTTP headers may not be exploitable in practice.
- **Submit random alphanumeric values.** For each entry point, submit a unique random value and determine whether the value is reflected in the response. The value should be designed to survive most input validation, so needs to be fairly short and contain only alphanumeric characters. But it needs to be long enough to make accidental matches within the response highly unlikely. A random alphanumeric value of around 8 characters is normally ideal. You can use Burp Intruder's number payloads [https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/intruder/payloads/types#numbers] with randomly generated hex values to generate suitable random values. And you can use Burp Intruder's grep payloads option to automatically flag responses that contain the submitted value.
- **Determine the reflection context.** For each location within the response where the random value is reflected, determine its context. This might be in text between HTML tags, within a tag attribute which might be quoted, within a JavaScript string, etc.
- **Test a candidate payload.** Based on the context of the reflection, test an initial candidate XSS payload that will trigger JavaScript execution if it is reflected unmodified within the response. The easiest way to test payloads is to send the request to Burp Repeater, modify the request to insert the candidate payload, issue the request, and then review the response to see if the payload worked. An efficient way to work is to leave the original random value in the request and place the candidate XSS payload before or after it. Then set the random value as the search term in Burp Repeater's response view. Burp will highlight each location where the search term appears, letting you quickly locate the reflection.
- **Test alternative payloads.** If the candidate XSS payload was modified by the application, or blocked altogether, then you will need to test alternative payloads and techniques that might deliver a working XSS attack based on the context of the reflection and the type of input validation that is being performed.
- **Test the attack in a browser.** Finally, if you succeed in finding a payload that appears to work within Burp Repeater, transfer the attack to a real browser (by pasting the URL into the address bar, or by modifying the request in Burp Proxy's intercept view, and see if the injected JavaScript is indeed executed. Often, it is best to execute some simple JavaScript like alert(document.domain) which will trigger a visible popup within the browser if the attack succeeds.

## Stored cross-site scripting
Stored cross-site scripting (also known as second-order or persistent XSS) arises when an application receives data from an untrusted source and includes that data within its later HTTP responses in an unsafe way.

Suppose a website allows users to submit comments on blog posts, which are displayed to other users. Users submit comments using an HTTP request like the following:
```
POST /post/comment HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
Content-Length: 100

postId=3&comment=This+post+was+extremely+helpful.&name=Carlos+Montoya&email=carlos%40normal-user.net
```
After this comment has been submitted, any user who visits the blog post will receive the following within the application's response:
```
<p>This post was extremely helpful.</p>
```
Assuming the application doesn't perform any other processing of the data, an attacker can submit a malicious comment like this:
```
<script>/* Bad stuff here... */</script>
```
Within the attacker's request, this comment would be URL-encoded as:
```
comment=%3Cscript%3E%2F*%2BBad%2Bstuff%2Bhere...%2B*%2F%3C%2Fscript%3E
```
Any user who visits the blog post will now receive the following within the application's response:
```
<p><script>/* Bad stuff here... */</script></p>
```
The script supplied by the attacker will then execute in the victim user's browser, in the context of their session with the application.

**Impact of stored XSS attacks**

If an attacker can control a script that is executed in the victim's browser, then they can typically fully compromise that user. The attacker can carry out any of the actions that are applicable to the impact of reflected XSS vulnerabilities.

In terms of exploitability, the key difference between reflected and stored XSS is that a stored XSS vulnerability enables attacks that are self-contained within the application itself. The attacker does not need to find an external way of inducing other users to make a particular request containing their exploit. Rather, the attacker places their exploit into the application itself and simply waits for users to encounter it.

The self-contained nature of stored cross-site scripting exploits is particularly relevant in situations where an XSS vulnerability only affects users who are currently logged in to the application. If the XSS is reflected, then the attack must be fortuitously timed: a user who is induced to make the attacker's request at a time when they are not logged in will not be compromised. In contrast, if the XSS is stored, then the user is guaranteed to be logged in at the time they encounter the exploit.

### How to find and test for stored XSS vulnerabilities
Testing for stored XSS vulnerabilities manually can be challenging. You need to test all relevant "entry points" via which attacker-controllable data can enter the application's processing, and all "exit points" at which that data might appear in the application's responses.

Entry points into the application's processing include:

- Parameters or other data within the URL query string and message body.
- The URL file path.
- HTTP request headers that might not be exploitable in relation to reflected XSS.
- Any out-of-band routes via which an attacker can deliver data into the application. The routes that exist depend entirely on the functionality implemented by the application: a webmail application will process data received in emails; an application displaying a Twitter feed might process data contained in third-party tweets; and a news aggregator will include data originating on other web sites.

The exit points for stored XSS attacks are all possible HTTP responses that are returned to any kind of application user in any situation.

The first step in testing for stored XSS vulnerabilities is to locate the links between entry and exit points, whereby data submitted to an entry point is emitted from an exit point. The reasons why this can be challenging are that:

- Data submitted to any entry point could in principle be emitted from any exit point. For example, user-supplied display names could appear within an obscure audit log that is only visible to some application users.
- Data that is currently stored by the application is often vulnerable to being overwritten due to other actions performed within the application. For example, a search function might display a list of recent searches, which are quickly replaced as users perform other searches.

To comprehensively identify links between entry and exit points would involve testing each permutation separately, submitting a specific value into the entry point, navigating directly to the exit point, and determining whether the value appears there. However, this approach is not practical in an application with more than a few pages.

Instead, a more realistic approach is to work systematically through the data entry points, submitting a specific value into each one, and monitoring the application's responses to detect cases where the submitted value appears. Particular attention can be paid to relevant application functions, such as comments on blog posts. When the submitted value is observed in a response, you need to determine whether the data is indeed being stored across different requests, as opposed to being simply reflected in the immediate response.

When you have identified links between entry and exit points in the application's processing, each link needs to be specifically tested to detect if a stored XSS vulnerability is present. This involves determining the context within the response where the stored data appears and testing suitable candidate XSS payloads that are applicable to that context. At this point, the testing methodology is broadly the same as for finding reflected XSS vulnerabilities.


















### Common questions about cross-site scripting
What is the difference between reflected XSS and stored XSS? Reflected XSS arises when an application takes some input from an HTTP request and embeds that input into the immediate response in an unsafe way. With stored XSS, the application instead stores the input and embeds it into a later response in an unsafe way.

What is the difference between reflected XSS and self-XSS? Self-XSS involves similar application behavior to regular reflected XSS, however it cannot be triggered in normal ways via a crafted URL or a cross-domain request. Instead, the vulnerability is only triggered if the victim themselves submits the XSS payload from their browser. Delivering a self-XSS attack normally involves socially engineering the victim to paste some attacker-supplied input into their browser. As such, it is normally considered to be a lame, low-impact issue.
