# nmap

This is a very important tool for any pentester. It scans a given target and finds out all the details about the machine like open ports, services running, OS version, etc.
**Remember using this on a machine you don't have permissions is illegal, so use it with responsibility**

Syntax: `nmap [OPTIONS] <target>`

```
ports=$(nmap -p- --min-rate=1000 -T4 TARGET_IP | grep ^[0-9] | cut -d '/' -f 1 | tr '\n' ',' | sed s/,$//)
nmap -sC -sV -p$ports TARGET_IP
```
Some important options:
- -sS: SYN scan, this requires sudo previledges. It performs a incomplete three-way handshake so also called *Half-open* or *Stealth* scan. Use this when the target has a firewall/IDS.
- -sU: UDP scan
- -O: to detect the OS running on target
- -sV: to detect versions of services running
- -v/-vv: to increase verbosity
- -p/-p-: to scan selected ports or all ports
- -sn: to scan a network and search for all systems. it can be used as `nmap -sn 192.168.0.1-254`
- --scripts: This is used to pass scripts along with the scan used for finding vulnerabilities or running exploits, etc. Syntax `nmap --script <filename>|<category>|<directory>/|<expression> <ip>`.  You can directly pass the NSE file declare a category from default,vuln,bruteforce,safe,etc.
- -sC: is equivalent to --script default
- --badsum: creates invalid checksum. Used to detect the presence of firewall

## Nmap Scripting Engine

 Syntax `nmap --script <filename>|<category>|<directory>/|<expression> <ip>`
Different categories of NSE are:
- safe:- Won't affect the target
- intrusive:- Not safe
- vuln:- Scan for vulnerabilities
- exploit:- Attempt to exploit a vulnerability
- auth:- Attempt to bypass authentication for running services (e.g. Log into an FTP server anonymously)
- brute:- Attempt to bruteforce credentials for running services
- discovery:- Attempt to query running services for further information about the network (e.g. query an SNMP server).

Specific script files can also be passed in the command separated by comma for multiple files like `--script=smb-enum-users,smb-enum-shares`

The arguments for the script is passed using `--script-args <args>`

Eg: `nmap -p 80 --script http-put --script-args http-put.url='/dav/shell.php',http-put.file='./shell.php'`

To know more about a script use help `nmap --script-help <script-name>`

Scripts are stored at `/usr/share/nmap/scripts` and the file `/usr/share/nmap/scripts/script.db` stores the list of all scripts. To search any script use grep on this file as `grep "ftp" /usr/share/nmap/scripts/script.db`

## firewall evasion



Know more using `man nmap` or [nmap](https://nmap.org/).
